+++
css = "css/blog.min.css"
date = "2012-10-05"
page_name = "Conference 2012"
title = "Short notes"
+++

<p>For the talks I did't make much notes, are gathered on this page.</p><h2 id="alexgraul">Using JS to build bigger, better datavis to enlighten and elate</h2><p class="subtitle">- Alex Graul - Twitter: @alexgraul - Video: <a href="http://vimeo.com/52851512">http://vimeo.com/52851512</a></p><p>Alex makes visualizations for the Guardian.</p><p>He showed us a couple of examples to make data more interesting for the people, using animations and interaction. He is co-lead developer of the <a href="misoproject.com/dataset/">Miso project</a>, this is an open source toolkit for creating interactive storytelling and data visualization of content. On the Miso project site you'll find some examples.</p><h2 id="mathiasbynens">Ten things I didn't know about HTML</h2><p class="subtitle">- Mathias Bynens - Twitter: @mathias - Video: <a href="http://vimeo.com/52851509">http://vimeo.com/52851509</a></p><p>Mathias showed us some funny things he found out using HTML. For example he tried to use a name for setting a background color, for example:</p><pre class="language-html" rel="HTML"><code><span class="punctuation">&lt;</span><span class="tag">div</span> <span class="attribute">bgcolor</span>="fronteersconf"<span class="punctuation">&gt;</span> Fronteers Conf <span class="punctuation">&lt;/</span><span class="tag">div</span><span class="punctuation">&gt;</span></code></pre><p>returns the Fronteers yellow logo color. Or "sick" returns: #000c00. Try it for yourself to find out what your color is. It also gives different results when you remove the spaces in your name: bgcolor="your name".</p><p>Mathias also advises not to be obsessive about HTML validation. It is build by people and also has bugs. But most of all, functionality is more important than validation.</p><blockquote>&ldquo;Validation is a tool, not a goal.&rdquo; <cite>- Mathias Bynens</cite></blockquote><p>Characters don't need to be output escaped. The browser will render it OK, It is also DTD valid.</p><p>He also found out that "font family" does not need to be quote. It's rendered correctly:</p><pre class="language-css" rel="CSS"><code><span class="property">font-family</span>: Comic Sans MS;</code></pre><p>But a font name beginning with a number does need quotes.</p><h2 id="leaverou">More CSS secrets: Another 10 things you may not know about CSS</h2><p class="subtitle">- Lea Verou - Twitter: @leaverou - Video: <a href="http://vimeo.com/52882799">http://vimeo.com/52882799</a></p><p>Lea showed us some awesome and powerful CSS(3) tricks. After this presentation you'll be longing for the day that these styles/animations are working cross browser, at least I do. It is amazing what you can accomplish with CSS, without using javascript. Although at the moment we still have to rely on one or the other untill it is available in the most common used browsers.</p><p>This presentation is really a must see. You can also check out the presentation of 2011 on: <a href="http://vimeo.com/31719130">vimeo</a></p><h2 id="peternederlof">Beyond simple transitions, with a pinch of JavaScript</h2><p class="subtitle">- Peter Nederlof - @peterlof - Video: <a href="http://vimeo.com/53317255">http://vimeo.com/53317255</a></p><p>To create animations we had to rely on custom javascript tools and libraries. We now can accomplish this with a simple CSS transition. However transitions still have their limits. Peter shows how to step beyond some of these limits.</p><h4>Benefits of CSS transitions</h4><ul><li>complete animation engine</li><li>no per-frame script calcuations</li><li>optimized in every way!</li></ul><p>You should also use 3d transforms. It has no reflows. It is hardware accelerated, also on mobiles. It is battery friendly and widely supported. Except for IE, of course.</p><p>But there is a problem: transitions have no stop. You can't stop or interrupt an transition. Querying the CSS property values might not always work.</p><p>Things to keep in mind:</p><ul><li>The transitionEnd event is not fired when a transition is interrupted.</li><li>Assigning styles via the javascript Api has a very high specifity.</li><li>Make fallbacks for critical cases: like left/top positioning for<xsl:text>&lt;</xsl:text>IE8, instead of using transformations.</li><li>Use progressive enhancement.</li><li>And most important, convince your client or project manager that this is OK.</li></ul><h2 id="rebeccamurphey">JS Minty Fresh: Identifying and Eliminating Smells in Your Code Base</h2><p class="subtitle">- Rebecca Murphey - Twitter: @rmurphey - Video: <a href="http://vimeo.com/53416986">http://vimeo.com/53416986</a></p><p>Rebecca talks about javascript code smell and how to solve this. It was a great talk with nice examples. I didn't even know that you can create html "template" and call it in javascript to make it more clean. That was a nice surpise. The <a href="http://vimeo.com/53416986">video</a> can tell you a lot more than these notes.</p><h4>Code smells are a suggestion of a deeper problem</h4><p>The harm is that debugging is harder, maintainability suffers and features are hard to add. You never come back to fix it later. So create clean code from the start.</p><p><strong>The smell</strong>: Repetitive code<br><strong>The fix</strong>: A function, object</p><p><strong>The smell</strong>: complex functions<br><strong>The fix</strong>: More<xsl:text>&amp;</xsl:text>smaller functions:keep functions short and simple and avoid complex if/else logic</p><p><strong>The smell</strong>: async acrobatics<br><strong>The fix</strong>: deferrers:manage and leverage asynchronicity</p><p><strong>The smell</strong>: html in javascript<br><strong>The fix</strong>: place it in the template. You can use _.template function from Underscore.js.</p><p>You can download the presentation from: <a href="http://rmurphey.com/js-minty-fresh/presentation">Rebecca Murpheys website</a></p><h2 id="alexrussell">What the legacy web is keeping from us</h2><p class="subtitle">- Alex Russell - Video: <a href="http://vimeo.com/53373706">http://vimeo.com/53373706</a></p><p>Progress is a man-made process, and like most man-made processes progress can be sped up and slowed down. Progress is good for people, for us. However it requires change and how many changes should be made and what changes should be made.</p><blockquote>&ldquo;Accessibility is the most important thing! In the computing world.&rdquo; <cite>- Alex Russell</cite></blockquote><p>Progress delayed is progress denied! For example the canvas tag or rounded cornes, svg. Some took 6-8 years, while it was proposed in the beginning of 2000. Optimistically, new features shipped today will not be usable until 2016!</p><p>Users do what they are asked to do. We can change that users start using new browsers.</p>